Key migration (#2137)
nostr-protocol/nips: D8.md

NIP-D8
======

Nostr Key Migration
-------------------

`draft` `optional`

> This NIP defines a simple mechanism which allows users to migrate to a new key and invalidate their current account. It combines signatures, social key recovery, Open Timestamp Attestations, and some trust assumptions to prevent hijacking by an attacker or loss of control through over-reliance on the social graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This NIP defines a simple mechanism which allows users to migrate to a new key and invalidate their current account. It combines signatures, social key recovery, OpenTimestamps Attestations, and some trust assumptions to prevent hijacking by an attacker or loss of control through over-reliance on the social graph.
```

This NIP is highly dependent on the existence of a complete and ordered record of `kind 360` and `kind 361` events.

`kind 360` MUST be readily available non-interactively (i.e., it can't be revealed at the same time a `kind 361` event is created), because an attacker with posession of the user's current key would otherwise be able to hijack the migration process by creating their own `kind 360` `precommit` and `kind 361` `migration` events.

Nostr relays offer no consistency guarantees, which means commodity relays cannot support this use case. Outbox relays can't be trusted because an attacker with access to a user's private key can update them. Trusted relays of any kind can become attack vectors, since they can selectively omit entries, facilitating a migration attack.

These risks can be mitigated (but not solved) in classically nostr fashion by spreading trust across a large number of `migration` relays. These relays MUST be independently run, and their owners MUST have an incentive to prevent account theft, which can only be assessed manually. All of these relays would have to collude in order to prevent a correct migration from occurring.

> However these relays are chosen, the entire network MUST use the same set. Network partitioning is unacceptable in this case. Selection of actual relays is left to the nostr community.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is necessary; all we need is that relays that signal support for this NIP:

* don't allow backdated events
* don't allow NIP-9 deleting `36x` events
